README.md, before:

rcoreoa
=======



[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable state and is being actively developed.](http://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](http://www.repostatus.org/#active)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/rcoreoa.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/rcoreoa)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/ropensci/rcoreoa/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/ropensci/rcoreoa?branch=master)
[![rstudio mirror downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/rcoreoa)](https://github.com/metacran/cranlogs.app)
[![cran version](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rcoreoa)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rcoreoa)

CORE API R client

[CORE API docs](https://core.ac.uk/docs/)

[CORE API - request access](https://core.ac.uk/api-keys/register)

<a href="https://core.ac.uk">
<img src="https://core.ac.uk/resources/corelogo_hires.png" width="150"
alt="CORE">
</a>

"Aggregating the world's open access research papers"

CORE offers seamless access to millions of open access research papers, enrich
the collected data for text-mining and provide unique services to the research
community.

For more infos on CORE, see:

[https://core.ac.uk/about](https://core.ac.uk/about)

## Install

Development version


```r
devtools::install_github("ropensci/rcoreoa")
```


```r
library("rcoreoa")
```

## high- vs. low-level interfaces

Each function has a higher level interface that does HTTP request for data and parses
the JSON using `jsonlite`. This is meant for those who want everything done for them,
but there's a time penalty for as the parsing adds extra time. If you just want raw JSON
unparsed text, you can use the low level interface.

The low level version of each function has `_` at the end (e.g., `core_search_`), while the
high level version doesn't have the `_` (e.g., `core_search`).

The high level version of each function uses the low level method, and the low level method
does all the logic and HTTP requesting, whereas the high level simply parses the output.

## Search


```r
core_search(query = 'ecology', limit = 12)
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $totalHits
#> [1] 894153
#> 
#> $data
#>       type             id
#> 1  journal issn:1005-264X
#> 2  journal issn:2287-8327
#> 3  journal issn:2193-3081
#> 4  journal issn:2351-9894
#> 5  journal issn:1472-6785
#> 6  journal issn:1712-6568
#> 7  journal issn:2008-9287
#> 8  journal issn:2356-6647
#> 9  journal issn:1687-9708
#> 10 journal issn:1708-3087
#> 11 journal issn:2299-1042
#> 12 journal issn:2162-1985
```


```r
core_search_(query = 'ecology', limit = 12)
#> [1] "{\"status\":\"OK\",\"totalHits\":894153,\"data\":[{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1005-264X\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2287-8327\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2193-3081\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2351-9894\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1472-6785\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1712-6568\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2008-9287\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2356-6647\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1687-9708\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1708-3087\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2299-1042\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2162-1985\"}]}"
```

## Advanced Search


```r
query <- data.frame("all_of_the_words" = "data mining",
                    "without_the_words" = "social science",
                    "year_from" = "2013",
                    "year_to" = "2014")

core_advanced_search(query)
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $totalHits
#> [1] 18542
#> 
#> $data
#>       type       id
#> 1  article 22642150
#> 2  article 22650635
#> 3  article 24006259
#> 4  article 23964816
#> 5  article 24074440
#> 6  article 22654775
#> 7  article 22625437
#> 8  article 23849064
#> 9  article 23723370
#> 10 article 27624048
```

# Articles


```r
core_articles(id = 21132995)
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $data
#> $data$id
#> [1] "21132995"
#> 
#> $data$authors
#> list()
#> 
...
```

# Aritcle history


```r
core_articles_history(id = '21132995')
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $data
#>              datetime
...
```

# Journals


```r
core_journals(id = '2167-8359')
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $data
#> $data$title
#> [1] "PeerJ"
#> 
#> $data$identifiers
#> [1] "oai:doaj.org/journal:576e4d34b8bf461bb586f1e90d80d7cc"
#> [2] "issn:2167-8359"                                       
...
```

# Get PDFs

The `_` for these methods means that you get a file path back to the PDF, while the
high level version without the `_` parses the pdf to text for you.


```r
core_articles_pdf_(11549557)
```

## Contributors

* [Scott Chamberlain](https://github.com/sckott)
* [Aristotelis Charalampous](https://github.com/aresxs91)
* [Simon Goring](https://github.com/SimonGoring)

## Meta

* Please [report any issues or bugs](https://github.com/ropensci/rcoreoa/issues).
* License: MIT
* Get citation information for `rcoreoa` in R doing `citation(package = 'rcoreoa')`
* Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

[![ropensci](https://ropensci.org/public_images/github_footer.png)](https://ropensci.org)

Commit message:

#14 add docs for where to get and how to use api keys in man files and readme update readme, add cran checks badge to readme bump dev version

README.md, after:

rcoreoa
=======



[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable state and is being actively developed.](http://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](http://www.repostatus.org/#active)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/rcoreoa.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/rcoreoa)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/ropensci/rcoreoa/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/ropensci/rcoreoa?branch=master)
[![cran checks](https://cranchecks.info/badges/worst/rcoreoa)](https://cranchecks.info/pkgs/rcoreoa)
[![rstudio mirror downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/rcoreoa)](https://github.com/metacran/cranlogs.app)
[![cran version](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rcoreoa)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rcoreoa)

CORE API R client

[CORE API docs](https://core.ac.uk/docs/)

Get an API key at <https://core.ac.uk/api-keys/register>. You'll need one, 
so do this now if you haven't yet. Once you have the key, you can pass it 
into the `key` parameter, or as a much better option store your key as an 
environment variable with the name `CORE_KEY` or an R option as `core_key`. 
See `?Startup` for how to work with env vars and R options

<a href="https://core.ac.uk">
<img src="https://core.ac.uk/resources/corelogo_hires.png" width="150"
alt="CORE">
</a>

"Aggregating the world's open access research papers"

CORE offers seamless access to millions of open access research papers, enrich
the collected data for text-mining and provide unique services to the research
community.

For more infos on CORE, see:

[https://core.ac.uk/about](https://core.ac.uk/about)

## Install

Development version


```r
devtools::install_github("ropensci/rcoreoa")
```


```r
library("rcoreoa")
```

## high- vs. low-level interfaces

Each function has a higher level interface that does HTTP request for data and parses
the JSON using `jsonlite`. This is meant for those who want everything done for them,
but there's a time penalty for as the parsing adds extra time. If you just want raw JSON
unparsed text, you can use the low level interface.

The low level version of each function has `_` at the end (e.g., `core_search_`), while the
high level version doesn't have the `_` (e.g., `core_search`).

The high level version of each function uses the low level method, and the low level method
does all the logic and HTTP requesting, whereas the high level simply parses the output.

## Search


```r
core_search(query = 'ecology', limit = 12)
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $totalHits
#> [1] 1454036
#> 
#> $data
#>       type             id
#> 1  journal issn:1005-264X
#> 2  journal issn:2287-8327
#> 3  journal issn:2193-3081
#> 4  journal issn:2351-9894
#> 5  journal issn:1472-6785
#> 6  journal issn:1712-6568
#> 7  journal issn:2008-9287
#> 8  journal issn:2356-6647
#> 9  journal issn:1687-9708
#> 10 journal issn:1708-3087
#> 11 journal issn:2299-1042
#> 12 journal issn:2162-1985
```


```r
core_search_(query = 'ecology', limit = 12)
#> [1] "{\"status\":\"OK\",\"totalHits\":1454036,\"data\":[{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1005-264X\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2287-8327\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2193-3081\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2351-9894\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1472-6785\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1712-6568\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2008-9287\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2356-6647\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1687-9708\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:1708-3087\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2299-1042\"},{\"type\":\"journal\",\"id\":\"issn:2162-1985\"}]}"
```

## Advanced Search


```r
query <- data.frame("all_of_the_words" = "data mining",
                    "without_the_words" = "social science",
                    "year_from" = "2013",
                    "year_to" = "2014")

core_advanced_search(query)
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $totalHits
#> [1] 25244
#> 
#> $data
#>       type        id
#> 1  article  22642150
#> 2  article  22620954
#> 3  article  22650635
#> 4  article  24006259
#> 5  article  23964816
#> 6  article 157985087
#> 7  article  44501305
#> 8  article  24074440
#> 9  article  22581369
#> 10 article  22654775
```

# Articles


```r
core_articles(id = 21132995)
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $data
#> $data$id
#> [1] "21132995"
#> 
#> $data$authors
#> list()
#> 
...
```

# Aritcle history


```r
core_articles_history(id = '21132995')
#> $status
#> [1] "OK"
#> 
#> $data
#>              datetime
#> 1 2016-08-03 00:13:41
#> 2 2014-10-22 16:42:14
...
```

# Journals


```r
core_journals(id = '2220-721X')
```

# Get PDFs

The `_` for these methods means that you get a file path back to the PDF, while the
high level version without the `_` parses the pdf to text for you.


```r
core_articles_pdf_(11549557)
```

## Contributors

* [Scott Chamberlain](https://github.com/sckott)
* [Aristotelis Charalampous](https://github.com/aresxs91)
* [Simon Goring](https://github.com/SimonGoring)

## Meta

* Please [report any issues or bugs](https://github.com/ropensci/rcoreoa/issues).
* License: MIT
* Get citation information for `rcoreoa` in R doing `citation(package = 'rcoreoa')`
* Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

[![ropensci](https://ropensci.org/public_images/github_footer.png)](https://ropensci.org)
